examples/libero/README.md, before:

# LIBERO Benchmark

This example runs the LIBERO benchmark: https://github.com/Lifelong-Robot-Learning/LIBERO

Note: When updating requirements.txt in this directory, there is an additional flag `--extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113` that must be added to the `uv pip compile` command.

This example requires git submodules to be initialized. Don't forget to run:

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

## With Docker

```bash
# Grant access to the X11 server:
sudo xhost +local:docker

export SERVER_ARGS="--env LIBERO"
docker compose -f examples/libero/compose.yml up --build
```

## Without Docker

Terminal window 1:

```bash
# Create virtual environment
uv venv --python 3.8 examples/libero/.venv
source examples/libero/.venv/bin/activate
uv pip sync examples/libero/requirements.txt third_party/libero/requirements.txt --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113 --index-strategy=unsafe-best-match
uv pip install -e packages/openpi-client
uv pip install -e third_party/libero
export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$PWD/third_party/libero

# Run the simulation
python examples/libero/main.py
```

Terminal window 2:

```bash
# Run the server
uv run scripts/serve_policy.py --env LIBERO
```

## Results

If you follow the training instructions and hyperparameters in the `pi0_libero` and `pi0_fast_libero` configs, you should get results similar to the following:

| Model | Libero Spatial | Libero Object | Libero Goal | Libero 10 | Average |
|-------|---------------|---------------|-------------|-----------|---------|
| π0-FAST @ 30k (finetuned) | 96.4 | 96.8 | 88.6 | 60.2 | 85.5 |
| π0 @ 30k (finetuned) | 96.8 | 98.8 | 95.8 | 85.2 | 94.15 |

Note that the hyperparameters for these runs are not tuned and $\pi_0$-FAST does not use a FAST tokenizer optimized for Libero. Likely, the results could be improved with more tuning, we mainly use these results as an example of how to use openpi to fine-tune $\pi_0$ models on a new dataset.

Commit message:

Make MUJOCO_GL configurable for libero example

examples/libero/README.md, after:

# LIBERO Benchmark

This example runs the LIBERO benchmark: https://github.com/Lifelong-Robot-Learning/LIBERO

Note: When updating requirements.txt in this directory, there is an additional flag `--extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113` that must be added to the `uv pip compile` command.

This example requires git submodules to be initialized. Don't forget to run:

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

## With Docker

```bash
# Grant access to the X11 server:
sudo xhost +local:docker

export SERVER_ARGS="--env LIBERO"
docker compose -f examples/libero/compose.yml up --build

# To run with glx for Mujoco instead (use this if you have egl errors):
MUJOCO_GL=glx docker compose -f examples/libero/compose.yml up --build
```

## Without Docker

Terminal window 1:

```bash
# Create virtual environment
uv venv --python 3.8 examples/libero/.venv
source examples/libero/.venv/bin/activate
uv pip sync examples/libero/requirements.txt third_party/libero/requirements.txt --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113 --index-strategy=unsafe-best-match
uv pip install -e packages/openpi-client
uv pip install -e third_party/libero
export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$PWD/third_party/libero

# Run the simulation
python examples/libero/main.py

# To run with glx for Mujoco instead (use this if you have egl errors):
MUJOCO_GL=glx python examples/libero/main.py
```

Terminal window 2:

```bash
# Run the server
uv run scripts/serve_policy.py --env LIBERO
```

## Results

If you follow the training instructions and hyperparameters in the `pi0_libero` and `pi0_fast_libero` configs, you should get results similar to the following:

| Model | Libero Spatial | Libero Object | Libero Goal | Libero 10 | Average |
|-------|---------------|---------------|-------------|-----------|---------|
| π0-FAST @ 30k (finetuned) | 96.4 | 96.8 | 88.6 | 60.2 | 85.5 |
| π0 @ 30k (finetuned) | 96.8 | 98.8 | 95.8 | 85.2 | 94.15 |

Note that the hyperparameters for these runs are not tuned and $\pi_0$-FAST does not use a FAST tokenizer optimized for Libero. Likely, the results could be improved with more tuning, we mainly use these results as an example of how to use openpi to fine-tune $\pi_0$ models on a new dataset.
